docs/00-overview.md, before:

# Overview
This document provides an overview of the Pangea project's architecture and usage instructions. 
The entire system is designed for self-educational purposes.

## System's Architecture
The system is designed to function as a forward-proxy, and log analysis functionalities.
It consists of three main modules:
1. Proxy: Acts as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers. Can filter requests, cache responses, and log traffic.
2. ETL (Extract, Transform, Load): Processes logs generated by the proxy, transforming them into a structured format suitable for fast distribution and analysis.
3. Agent: Performs AI-based log analysis to give insights about network traffic, detect anomalies and potential threats.

Modules communicate via files and Kafka topics, allowing for modular deployment and scalability.
Each module is containerized using Docker for ease of deployment. Kubernetes is used for orchestration and management of the containers.

### Flow

<img src="./diagram_v1.png" alt="Pangea Architecture Diagram" width="80%"/>

1. Proxy receives client requests and manages them, logging all traffic. Logs are sent to the message broker.
2. ETL module consumes logs from the message broker and processes them.
3. Processed logs are stored in a structured format for analysis and sent back to the message broker.
4. Agent module consumes processed logs from the message broker for AI-based analysis.

## Usage Instructions
_TODO_

Commit message:

Update overview documentation to clarify the ETL stream processing pattern

docs/00-overview.md, after:

# Overview
This document provides an overview of the Pangea project's architecture and usage instructions. 
The entire system is designed for self-educational purposes.

## System's Architecture
The system is designed to function as a forward-proxy, and log analysis functionalities.
It consists of three main modules:
1. Proxy: Acts as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers. Can filter requests, cache responses, and log traffic.
2. ETL (Extract, Transform, Load): Processes logs generated by the proxy, transforming them into a structured format suitable for fast distribution and analysis.
3. Agent: Performs AI-based log analysis to give insights about network traffic, detect anomalies and potential threats.

Modules communicate via files and Kafka topics, allowing for modular deployment and scalability.
Each module is containerized using Docker for ease of deployment. Kubernetes is used for orchestration and management of the containers.

### Flow

<img src="./diagram_v1.png" alt="Pangea Architecture Diagram" width="80%"/>

1. Proxy receives client requests and manages them, logging all traffic. Logs are sent to the message broker.
2. ETL module consumes logs from the message broker and processes them.
3. Processed logs are stored in a structured format for analysis and sent back to the message broker 

> "Stream processor" pattern: ETL is in the middle of the pipeline both consuming and producing messages.
>
>```Proxy --> [Topic "raw-logs"] --> ETL --> [Topic "processed-logs"] --> Agent```

4. Agent module consumes processed logs from the message broker for AI-based analysis.

## Usage Instructions
_TODO_
